[Music]
good morning so we'll start with our
opening prayers the little booklet 37
practice as the way of a bodhisattva
please raise your hand if you need one
of these and we'll begin on page two no
more locust what I will seem that all
phenomenon neither come nor go you
strive solely for the sake of all beings
supreme guru and protector Chenrezig at
all times i respectfully pay homage to
you with my body speech and mind the
perfect buddha's source of all benefit
and happiness arise from having
accomplished the true dharma since that
depends on knowing the practices I shall
explain the way of Bodhisattvas having
now gained this great ship of freedom
and fortune so difficult to find in
order to free yourself and others from
the ocean cyclic existence
listen reflect and meditate day and
night without distraction this is the
way of a bodhisattva attachment to loved
ones turns like water hatred for enemies
rages like fire in the darkness of
ignorance one forgets what to adopt and
want to avoid abandon your homeland this
is the way of a bodhisattva when
negative places are abandoned disturbing
emotions will gradually decline without
distractions attention to virtue
naturally gross when the mind becomes
clear certainty
the Dharma arises live alone in
seclusion this is the way of a
bodhisattva family and longtime
companions will part from each other
possessions gained with effort will be
left behind consciousness a guest will
leave the guest house of the body let go
of all worldly concerns this is the way
of a bodhisattva in bad company the
three poisons grow stronger the
activities of learning reflecting and
meditating decline and love and
compassion are lost give up such
companions this is the way of a
bodhisattva when one follows a true
spiritual friend faults will dissolve
and good quality school grow like the
waxing moon consider this friend more
dear than your own body this is the way
of a bodhisattva who can worldly gods
themselves imprisoned in a samsara
protect therefore seek refuge in the
three jewels the undeceiving source of
refuge this is the way of a bodhisattva
the buddha taught that all the
unbearable suffering of the lower realms
who is caused by wrongdoing therefore
never act wrongfully even at the cost of
your life this is the way of a
bodhisattva like a dewdrop on a blade of
grass the happiness of the three worlds
vanishes and but an instant strive for
the supreme state of never changing
liberation this is the way of a
bodhisattva when mothers who have loved
you since beginningless time are
suffering what good is your own
happiness and therefore give rise to
bodhichitta in order to liberate
infinite sentient beings this is the way
of a bodhisattva all suffering without
exception comes from seeking your own
happiness the perfect buddhas are born
from the altruistic mind therefore is
truly exchange your own half
for the suffering of others this is the
way of a bodhisattva even if someone
driven out of desire steals all your
wealth or lets others steal it
dedicate to them your body possessions
in all virtues of the three times this
is the way of a bodhisattva even if
someone cuts off your head when you
haven't done anything wrong take all
their negative deeds upon yourself
through the power of compassion this is
the way of a bodhisattva even if others
slander you throughout a billion worlds
in return speak with a loving mind of
their good qualities this is the way of
a bodhisattva even if someone exposes
your hidden faults and insults you in
front of others view that person as a
teacher and bow with respect this is the
way of a bodhisattva even if someone you
have cared for as dearly as your own
child regards you as an enemy loved that
person even more as a mother would her
ailing child this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone of equal or
lower status driven by pride treats you
with disdain respectfully placed them on
your crown as your teacher this is the
way of a bodhisattva though you may be
impoverished always disparaged gripped
by disease and tormented by spirits
never lose courage but take on the
misdeeds and the pain of all beings this
is the way of a bodhisattva though you
may be famous and revered by many and
are as rich as the wealth god himself
having seen that worldly fortune is
without essence do not be proud this is
the way of a bodhisattva
if the enemy your own anger is not tamed
subduing other enemies will only make
them increase therefore subdue your own
mind
with the army of love and compassion
this is the way of a bodhisattva sensory
pleasures are like salt water the more
you drink the greater your thirst
abandon at once all things that give
rise to clinging attachment this is the
way of a bodhisattva the way things
appear is your own mind mind itself
primordial ii transcends fabricated
extremes knowing just this do not create
concepts of subject and object this is
the way of a bodhisattva when you come
across things that attract you like
beautiful rainbows in summertime do not
regard them as real and abandon clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva all suffering is like the
death of your child in a dream how
exhausting it is to hold illusory
appearances as real therefore when you
meet with disagreeable circumstances see
them as illusory this is the way of a
bodhisattva when even once body must be
given up when aspiring for enlightenment
what need is there to mention material
things there for practice generosity
without hope of reward or karmic results
this is the way of a bodhisattva if you
lack moral discipline you cannot
accomplish even your own purpose so
wanting to achieve the purpose of others
is truly absurd therefore protect your
discipline without concern for worldly
existence this is the way of a
bodhisattva for Bodhisattvas who desire
a wealth of virtue all harm is like a
precious treasure therefore without
hostility be patient with everyone this
is the way of
sattva even hearers or solitary
realizers who accomplished only their
own purpose strive as if putting out a
fire on their head
seeing this practice with diligence the
source of good qualities for the sake of
all beings this is the way of a
bodhisattva disturbing emotions are
destroyed by insight grounded in calm
abiding knowing this cultivate
meditative concentration that purely
transcends the four formless absorptions
this is the way of a bodhisattva without
wisdom the other five perfections alone
are not enough to reach complete
enlightenment
thus combined with skillful means
develop the wisdom that does not
distinguish among the three spheres this
is the way of a bodhisattva unless you
examine your own confused ideas you
might look like a practitioner but not
be acting like one therefore always
examine yourself and abandon confusion
this is the way of a bodhisattva if you
are driven by disturbing emotions and
talk about another Bodhisattvas false it
is actually to your own detriment so
don't mention the faults of those who
have entered the great vehicle this is
the way of a bodhisattva concern for
gain and respect causes conflict and
decline in the activities of learning
reflecting and meditating so abandon
attachment to your circle of friends
relations and benefactors this is the
way of a bodhisattva harsh words disturb
others minds and thus diminish the
practice of a bodhisattva
therefore abandon harsh speech which is
unpleasant to others this is the way of
a bodhisattva
when disturbing emotions become habitual
it is difficult to reverse them with
antidotes thus the soldier of
mindfulness we
antidotes as weapons in destroys
disturbing emotions such as attachment
the moment they start to arise this is
the way of a bodhisattva
in brief wherever you are and whatever
you are doing always examine the state
of your mind act to accomplish the
purpose of others through constant
mindfulness and awareness this is the
way of a bodhisattva with the wisdom of
the threefold purity dedicate all the
virtue gained from having made such
effort toward enlightenment dedicated to
clear away the suffering of infinite
beings this is the way of a bodhisattva
in accordance with the words of the holy
ones regarding the meaning of the sutras
tantras and their commentaries and I
have written these thirty seven verses
on the way of a bodhisattva where those
who wish to train on the Bodhisattvas
path this composition will not be
admired by the learner because my
intellect is poor and my education is
limited however I have followed the
sutras and the words of the Holy Ones so
I believe these ways of a bodhisattva
are not mistaken still because the vast
deeds of Bodhisattvas are difficult to
grasp by simple-minded beings like
myself I beg the forgiveness of the Holy
Ones for the mass of my errors such as
contradictions and inconsistencies by
the virtue arising from this may all
beings give rise to relative and
ultimate bodhichitta and thereby become
like the protector Chenrezig who does
not abide in the extremes of existence
or peace daily the original
the weather chart Ravager giving his
only talking each of those of those are
virtual assaults of lulu coordinate over
line of thoughts about holla at the
crucial example using songs or
totalitarian our arm of a mere logical
tamil trooper Jared Rockwell column on
normal so there are instigating to
around a sort of Hajduk when you more
heat or a simple moves enthusiast other
dominance or the systems imagine that
you GG you're talking about your
Achilles or cities or the news that on
Tina about you joining those are then
you know don't cross Nevada suitable the
Sancho pinky to watch you belong you
also college
ha ha
don't worry Molly dr. Dolan Jones Pataki
give you some young trans so da da da
young god you're just chillin Halima
Davao region or Saudis rattling you so
much on Laura's so much on a dime
Nadia doctrinal on my not a loser
Diaries angrily doll oh no I do charge
from under the child not to demolish
along at you but
so it is diatomite better series Jessie
does Jim Bergamo Britta Tom Watson was
in LA welcome aboard a particular didn't
mind the holy somewhere not a problem
you know what to party example do hard
wasn't charity water she wasn't even a
pathologist dr. hrusa formerly been a
terrible solitary marriage is a business
not a melody a jar even horizontally
during the Hajj tourism tourism and it's
also directed the metric system not a
seminar the bar chart isn't so pervasive
in our domain you already they do claim
a doubt now nobody's in there a tribunal
hazel
so tie my friends yesterday we came to
him first number 10 and this is also the
beginning of the mahayana path where we
actually begin to cultivate bodhichitta
and so here from verse number 10 we have
recognized that altruism bodhichitta is
so precious and we have said that the
way we cultivate that is through our
mothers and let me take this small love
that we have for our mothers in
comparison to great love and then think
that all sentient beings have been my
mother's without exception so when you
recognize that then this limited love
becomes vast love so that's where we
left off with yesterday that's actually
a very auspicious point to stop the
teachings but today we come to the next
verse number 11 it says all suffering
without exception comes from seeking
your own happiness the perfect Buddhists
are born from the altruistic mind
therefore truely exchange your own
happiness for the suffering of others
this is the way of a bodhisattva so why
is it that the Buddha's have made such
an effort and endured all these
hardships so what is the Buddha where
does it come from
so the Buddha's are all born from the
altruistic mind and all suffering comes
from them self-cherishing mind and so
then first of all what is this self and
where does it come from and you look at
it the Buddha had said there is actually
no self you can't see it but because we
have a body we identify with this body
as the self you think that this is mean
so we have this habitual imprint of the
sense of me and I that there being an
eye and we have habituate to that since
beginningless time so this is similar to
the
getting cold and water freezing into an
ice block actually the mind itself in
its natural state is like the ocean or
for example it's like a big dream with
many branches and then each branch might
think that that's me and that branch
over there is him but actually they all
correct connected to a single tree trunk
a single root so they actually won and
that's the ultimate reality but it is
because we we grasped at this sense of a
self and we believe that this is true
that this grasping is what first of all
creates a body and simply having created
a body in itself alone already means
that we need to experience suffering
there's no need to go into each
suffering in in each one by one and deed
held for example and the body of an
animal only by having created this
animal body the animal is bound to
experience suffering and we do
occasionally experience some happiness
in the higher realms scars in humans in
the three higher realms it is said
however that mainly beings experience
the suffering of change in the three
lower realms the predominant suffering
is the suffering of suffering there are
different levels of suffering there but
just the fact that we have created a
body itself means that we are bound to
experience suffering and even without a
body there are many sentient beings who
do not have a body but they have a
habitual imprint of being a self and
therefore they still experience
suffering so it arises from this sense
of me is thought Chris grasping of an
eye on tourism or salmon or newborn
alumina Norwich
all the monotony jr. Samar's of Germany
centers are in Kentucky live action
gotcha Tom Canty no no no nobody you're
a total you have our challenges our
sister eternity George change in
pathology solutions at all the continent
pleasure dramatis personae normally
transported rationally the patrol car
dealer
- no no medicinal purchase on botany G
Co Co domain just down so that all
children Utley since the doctor AHA
Thomason's
national trauma so no patience a child
or tamasha sorry Sam allocated all my
videos on there is normally less turn of
story
Tata box and Aris Nigel Monroe Doctrine
on thi Machado
consignee vomit astrologer or recital
and our child thoughts audit of the
young the majority majority
Thomas 82 me know partially actually not
what its enormous
the talent in the remember study in
Jordan Jones lions about the children
become soggy the parameters determine
what the master taught the male of the
charity material
young minds was todas or harbor hmm
don't continue pero no disabled wow this
is four dollars total departure without
dodging those temptation in the ganges
transport up Tony Bunga the alternative
- I didn't touch you perhaps don't touch
or taste - OH
[Music]
Nagi is doing somewhere and so then if
we know think about them how we create
this podium and how all the foreign
suffering is based on this podium then
one might think that well then if I if I
don't have a body then I also will not
suffer but that's also not true at all
no because we can see that for example
at night when we dream and we continue
to engage in all kinds of activities
just like in a day time and we are awake
and how we engage in these activities is
through this sense of an eye that is
doing things so you're bringing with you
all those habitual imprints of the
waking States into your dream and then
just like in a daytime also at night you
have various appearances of I'm going
here I'm going there and doing this
something that you engage in all kinds
of activities of Dhamma or mundane
activities so all of these imprints that
are within your mind become then
projected just like a film like a TV
film and so then at that time and when
we are in the midst of that experience
do we experience an actual experience of
suffering we do whatever we experience
is however the manifestation of our own
imprints there's no one else who is
making these appearances it's our own
imprint and yet we experience suffering
so where are these imprints these
imprints all are within the sense of me
and I and we have various imprints we
have virtuous imprints habits of love
and compassion which are the causes of
happiness and then there is non-virtuous
negative imprints causes of suffering
which mainly is this selfish mind I'm
most important and so due to this
variety of virtue and inversion we
experience a variety of happiness and
suffering and then whatever is
predominant whatever is stronger that
will then be projected in the dream as a
natural projection of your own mind and
then it is similar when you die their
consciousness realizes I have died when
a person dies they eventually might
realize Oh worse my body didn't record I
realized that there is no body and
that's a very strange feeling and then
they realize I must have died and then
what happened to me and then this I
becomes stronger and stronger and then
they want to have a body they go looking
for a body but they have no choice over
what body to enter they will follow
their Karma that's the only way and then
whatever is their Karma they take birth
in this free higher or the lower realms
so those karmic winds that's will bring
you are those habits that we have formed
so you just follow your habit you follow
your comic winds just naturally and then
you have created a body a new body and
due to this habitual imprints a
particularity imprints
the habit of desire causes you to enter
the womb the moment you have entered the
womb the dream of this life which is
like the dream of one night begins you
fall unconscious you fall asleep and you
come into this dream of this life at the
end of this life you wake up from this
dream and you move on to the next screen
and last life appears just like last
night's dream and you remain within this
life just like the oil in a butter lamp
until the karma is exhausted you will
stay in this life and experience
suffering there and then again you pass
away and again this I arises in another
dream like state arises over and over
again so all suffering comes from this
wish for one's own happiness and their
form the Buddha had taught methods to
eliminate this grasping at herself and
then as we proceed in this text many
methods are being mentioned methods of
taking happiness as the path and methods
of taking suffering as the path but
basically what it all comes down to is
to recognize that all suffering comes
from this grasping at and I for example
even just a very small example when you
see a mosquito flying around you think I
want to kill it why do you want to kill
it because it will bite me and so this
is the small imprint that already is
there so it is just like that so when
you recognize that you should come to
certain team and see that it's really
true it all comes from this grasping of
me and I'm so therefore what you really
need to do is just apply methods to
eliminate this grasping at the self so
here you then recognize this is all I
need to do I need to eliminate
self-grasping so by
acting upon these points you should come
to this resolution this decision and it
arises when you really see the faults of
self-grasping sanctuary tell Mario Puzo
the reports in the press onomastics our
initial report illegitimate sons world
come on listen Jaden something from
something some digitally since they are
monomers a child or teen obesity motion
in the Saracens municipal de mogi das
Auto key social determinants Sebastian
Vettel
some dodgy Samsung dissimulated some
criminal authorities charge higher rates
Tata Tata negative McGee the new
aquarium directors to work on the -
listen colonies is something until
transient shut the Somerton the metal
sounded super charged a mess all 70 we
artisan metal know Jenny's of the
authority to limit or John's no
authority met Jacques Cousteau tears of
tomorrow
Samantha Jones essence top-drawer
assumption song doesn't eat me talking
the chasm Sandow disorder said D'Arnot
the leader of our so doing some some
Italian dog
oh honey you got a sausage a little NATO
somehow or doctors of our continent
there are resources and this was the
past hundred that's what it turns her on
turn the corner or 13g or cerveza
general Congress Donna raggedly also
emerges to develop knowledge and so they
put us are born from the altruistic mind
and so how is that born for example when
a mother would he loves her child and
she always thinks about her child and
she completely forgets about the self
I'm just not sure all him she just
thinks about how can I care for my child
and just naturally she will practice
worship she will be generous and
disciplined and patient and so on all of
these virtuous qualities naturally
increase and that happens even due to
this smaller limited love only for one's
child but when the child is there with
the mother and due to the great love
that she has for her child she feels
happy and doesn't even notice any kind
of physical or other mental hardships
but naturally she will be patient and so
then when you feel this love for all
mother sentient beings then all the
self-grasping has becomes cleared away
so this is what happened through the
Buddhist all self-grasping has become
cleared away the mind became frame like
a vast ocean all theme little solid ice
blocks have been melted so what has been
cleared away self-grasping
and what expands then is the true nature
of their mind which is like space so
when you reflect on this you realize I
actually can become that I can become a
Buddha
and therefore what this is saying is
that do not consider all these temporary
happiness as pleasures of yourself to be
more important so then when you hear
that then you might wonder what's really
the essence of saying that because what
if somebody like hits me I need to
practice patience and what's the benefit
of that if you really think you are
carefully about benefits of love and the
faults of self-grasping you will see
that all these causes that we create i
like the seeds of a flower and all the
qualities of the flower are already
complete within the seed and slowly it
will grow into a sprout into a flower
and then what kind of flower it is will
become a parent it might be a beautiful
flower that produces honey and has a
beautiful scent and color
or it might be a poisonous flower and
that maybe it's like tobacco or in an
intoxicant or has thorns and so on so
there's different kinds of flowers but
all the qualities of whatever flower
that is are already contained within
that seed in that small seed and so just
like that all suffering all of samsara
is contained within this seed of
self-grasping own limb and likewise this
seed of altruism no matter how big or
small it is it's always the cause of
happiness temporarily and ultimately so
when you think in this way you will come
to some certainty that this is how it
really is
therefore be patient about temporary
things and consider others is more
important so then this realization
arises in you and you feel that this is
really this is really important and
therefore I must consider others more
important than myself if I keep
being selfish only thinking about myself
again I will freeze into an ice block
every time I do that therefore I
probably should exchange myself with
others and consider them as more
important so in brief this is saying
that do not just seek your your own
happiness but consider addresses more
important Tati
finally locked in a horizontal running
some jewelry Nittany Valley sadakichi
1000 or transitional return to the
supernatural series zombie little nation
is ours touch each other
tied to the shelter's awesome is yahwah
is done in tokyo mysterious young mama
still uncertain formally from Mars even
even Hawaii doubles what you learn is
open this until lazy muscle car not any
raga knowledge engine salami parts the
demon yet our weary traveler s :
nor partial T tenacity rugged something
these are original no sincerity new boat
or annuity mom what a clear and a pie
chart of the throat along with the
teachers grow
these are some other little solutions of
determinism guarantee simply stated the
message supplements anything the promise
or some wrong decor Islamic terrorism
the realistic assumption of authority
Authority
telogen is any but you cannot object
Charles Deveaux - provincial authorities
are raised so their form we truly
exchange our own happiness for the
suffering of others so this is this
versus acteam the base is the
foundational view and with that to bring
that then into all of the other verses
on to the path of practice so this is
the basis and so then as we engage in
practice we encounter all sorts of
difficulties and so it begins here and
verse 12
even if someone
driven by great desire steals all your
wealth or lets other steal it dedicate
to them your body possessions and all
virtues of the three times this is the
way of a bodhisattva so this happens
everywhere in the world and so now as
practitioner when we encounter such a
circumstance what are we supposed to do
none so normally the natural thing to do
might be to to fight against it to
expose it and so on
and for example somebody had stolen her
taken your money then you feel have
wronged then you feel that I lent him
that money and I believed him and then
he took it from him either people take
it forcefully or in deceptive ways but
in either way whichever way it was taken
the fact that he was taken is due to a
karma that exists from previous lives so
that means if you would not have created
the fault of stealing in a previous life
if you that camera wouldn't exist and
even if somebody wanted to take things
from you no one would be able to because
there is no Karma for example we can see
there is some very rich people in this
world they remain that way so if the
Khammam does not exist then nothing can
be taken so so that is the first thing
to bring to mind when that happens and
then the other thing is to remember also
about remember the benefits of
generosity so normally then when
somebody takes something from use of
steals from you you get angry and you
feel that I have lost something but
whatever it is when that happens in any
circumstance whether you have lost
something or anything else happens
that but you really have lost is your
love for for that person so whatever the
situation may be then what happens is
first of all you get angry you lose your
love and then so you lost your money
then you get angry and on top of that
you then maybe you fight back and you
spend all that money for that so you're
piling up negativity upon negativity and
in this way you are creating a thicker
and thicker imprints for the future
you're increasing the negativity within
yourself so therefore don't do that but
think that that is very well he has
taken my money now I have paid back my
karmic debts he was a karmic credit term
this was karma from a previous life and
this person is only a temporary
condition so you can make a prayer
saying that may dis purify all karmic
debts with all karmic creditors and all
sentient beings so if you if you think
in this way and then that is actually
sufficient then you would just be
content and feel that as long as I pay
back my karmic debt that is fine or for
example one time there was a sick person
who also asked the question now I'm very
sick and now spend all this money and
medical treatment of lost all my money
and it's not getting better
and and then this person was very upset
and cried and said that now I'm gonna
flaps alone in the nursing home and lost
everything so again I say to that person
don't think that way because everything
that you have to give away in paid for a
hospital or a school and so on think of
it as an act of generosity that benefits
the hospital because we are not able to
intentionally actually make offerings to
a hospital but we
in this kind of indirect way and think
that this is my generosity and also this
pays back all of my karmic debt so this
this is good and then also bring to mind
all of the other sentient beings who
experienced similar suffering and I
think that may my experience of this
difficult team clear away all the karmic
debts all comic creditors may all the
suffering of sentient beings who
experienced similar suffering be
alleviated so even praying this way and
so that's the essence of this verse
number 12 so when these things happen
then you should think that actually
there was a good thing to happen because
now I have found bodhichitta I have
found patience and love actually you
have gained a great advantage in this
way that is also what my day the Pascal
masters have our said he practiced
patience with your enemies so we also
mentioned that yesterday how we should
remember them the kindness of our
enemies means the Japanese anime -
coyote in a certain town in Germany -
digital controller similarly the
authorities are small Polaris missle
Mamaji cilantro that's one of our mobile
need to install
we are from the domain where the geminal
tolerate little PI R dr. D donor it
tourism mmm County Manager materials
there's a corner comes the Pachanga
awesome don't gotta do what it wasn't
sufficient estoppel Jakarta something
wrong oh my god researches the results
of some engine turns over odd Centauri
or $30.00 so now here's one the theater
la Rana Scottish from Nazareth own party
where's the llama drama destiny tt
miserable car some of the ladies
learning so diamond and the so much
that'll generate total rays of the
mountainous among red
basics our love never read the next
verse number 13
even if someone cuts off your head when
you haven't done anything wrong take all
the negative deeds upon yourself through
the power of compassion this is the way
of a body start from so again this is
something that we find everywhere in
this world its refers to for example
being wrongly accused of something that
you haven't done for example various
things happen and you might end up in
prison although you haven't done
anything so there's many different
examples of this and here again we have
carmem whatever we experience in this
life is the result of what we have done
in previous lives and whatever we do in
this life is for the purpose of future
lives so you might feel that I haven't
done anything wrong in this life why am
i accused of this or sometimes natural
disasters happen like earthquakes or
floodings and so on
all kinds of suffering suddenly happens
and that is due to Karma it is that if
you want to know what you did in the
past
look present body so you recognize this
is my Karma and with that you can just
let go of the thinking and close the
door to that with knowing that it is
karma without getting angry knowing that
I'm purifying my negative karma in this
way so this is how you think for example
when you are accused of having done
something that you actually haven't done
of wrong that you haven't done you think
that this is my karma and the
encountering of that person is the
condition and so in that circumstance
was most important
aside from practicing patience is to
sustain love because that's usually what
happens in that circumstances that we
lose our love so then remember again I
am actually we think that I'm a
practitioner I practice but this is
really difficult this one is really a
difficulty then we just get angry
anyways but so all kinds of
circumstances can make us angry but in
that moment if you are able to hold on
to your love then that circumstance
actually becomes practice and you will
perfect patience so that is how you
should practice when these things happen
to you or if it happens to somebody else
like a friend for example it happens as
many of these circumstances in the world
happens all the time
so when there is a
with experiences similar circumstances
you can also tell them this is our mom
and then refer to this verse in the
thirty-seven practices and that will be
really beneficial and also know you can
tell them that this is the comma from a
previous life but whatever you do now is
for the sake of future lives so this is
what you can tell others and if it
happens to you this is how you should
remain positive October zinnias Sun
descent engine car engine turns over
Yahoo now some cheesy potato somos todos
Namba Camila gosh - Donna Cochran temp
Romina rotten telomeres negocio son
Jaime todo judge robert average car
smell each animal travel delays in an
encoder rod oMG you warranty Yola g1000
tacos an average consistent routine upon
this whole Dora okay see each other
tomorrow
Johnny watch virus she took a judge a
drug user village doctor Menominee
literature culture supporters the Lord
is our lower
there is no chair not a little runny
don't see Joe Morris the oddity to the
Georgia Power Authority the other door
is the powerful motor charger or these
are the only two sitters are participant
notice Tony young team on our
televisions over to maneuver your
measure eternity very talented couple
they're not ours
then verse number 14 even if others
slander you throughout a billion worlds
in return speak with a loving mind of
their good qualities this is the way of
a bodhisattva so this verse is very
important and now in whichever way
whatever other people same to whatever
the green whatever false they might
expose or slander one whether it is
directly or indirectly and so forth if
it is if it is said and you for example
do you have that fault then this person
in a way becomes your new teacher and if
you do not have the fault as actually
part of ambush and said that he said
that I prefer to be blamed I do not
prefer to be praised because when I'm
praised my pride increases by men I'm
blamed my hidden faults come out and if
I do possess this fault then this is a
teaching and if I do not possess this
fault it is in a sense and if I warning
to not commit this fault so various
faults are might be exposed and whatever
it might be
so the instruction here is in return
speak of their good qualities so what
happens when you do that when others
only talk about your faults and in turn
you speak about their good qualities
with a loving mind then they might feel
that this is a real practitioner even
though we have expressed all of them
they're false and they speak of our
qualities so actually in this way you
will be actually you're kind of um
your glory increases and you will be
regarded as a real Dharma practitioner
even if you are blamed in hundreds of
ways and you continue to speak of their
good qualities and actually
if you would go the other way and
respond with in a defensive way and you
defend yourself and then you fight and
then the firing goes back and forth it
will not be resolved by making your
point you will only get worse and then
they respond and you respond and then it
will only get worse and worse in the end
so if you directly meant that by just
speaking of their good qualities then
actually it also pulls you in a good
light but of course it says here with a
loving mind so you shouldn't feel like
you know like kind of um smart I'm
thinking that if I if if I speak of
their good qualities even though they
praise me that'd be really embarrassing
for them so and then I would look really
good so that is more a deceptive way I
thought that's why here it says mr.
loving mind he's big of their good
qualities so really from the bottom of
your heart
he actually mean it when you speak of
their good qualities so and then in
terms of know speaking of qualities and
false actually everyone has faults and
qualities and in general we consider a
person a person with good qualities if
they have more good qualities than
faults if they have more false than good
qualities then this person is somewhat
flawed but in general there is no one
who only possesses good qualities it's
very hard to find someone like that
everyone will possesses both faults and
qualities like to get suddenly in
dressing to me digital property was just
a learning zone that is the hunting
ground already you know Thomas or London
eg
superintendent dr. G
not aunt d'harans of our that are
generally Hollywood god young the chachi
many Buster doesn't resist or was in the
shorts with your totally terrible not on
our digital normal the balcony
rheumatism Simmons very religion total
gives the body mounts old recently about
the north
when mrs. Ison birthday solution they
are traveling north on the a litany
doctors diamond swords about me
or emeritus impossible yet well digits
operates to delete Holly so so imagine
your marriage
[Music]
they were
jingle Rossum in what they need to do
what a miracle teachers always that are
there were certain is verse number 15
even if someone exposes your hidden
faults and insults you in front of
others
view that person as a teacher and bow
with respect this is the way of a
bodhisattva so these verses are all
quite similar him but here for example
no man sama exposes your faults for this
all comes down to is our grasping at all
of that so for example when we practice
dating we
by visualizing the de team we let go of
the fixation to form so then form
becomes appearance becomes empty and let
me recite the mantra we let go of our
grasping a sound so sound becomes empty
and often it is sound that causes a lot
of afflictive emotions we hear a very
pleasant sound and we like to listen to
it and we develop attachment when we
hear an unpleasant sound we develop an
aversion against it we don't like it and
so this is how we cling to the meaning
of the words that the sounds that we
hear and that generates very powerful
feelings within us so it's really the
fault of grasping and sound and through
the mantra for example without grasping
a sound all sounds really become equal
and there is no grasping but every time
you begin to grasp each grasping
increases these thoughts of attachment
and aversion and then slowly kind of the
color of your mind begins to change
become obscured just like during a lunar
solar eclipse and when the mind becomes
obscured you lose your wisdom on the
other hand if through the practice you
let go of grasping and sound and let go
of grasping at form then nothing can
obscure the mind and the mind will
remain with clarity so the fault really
here comes from grasping at sounds and
so on that that we hear for other people
same now for example if someone even if
someone praises you and expresses your
good qualities has actually no real
point in it if you don't actually have
those qualities you won't gain them just
by their mentioning them for example
Sakya Pandita also had said praise
doesn't make you any better and blame
doesn't make
any worse so you should be confident in
your own qualities and so here mainly
the quality of self-grasping and enter
stay without without getting involved in
praise and blame dr. Joffe stars in a
negative experiment is Roberto Jocelyn's
oh and the Hydra cultural dimension
Carly's hot the automotive not only the
the each other on the European Court
Justice who versus Charlton toward
Authority or total utility panel nothing
like CIJ star in China three teachers
are interchangeable or a parent are the
fridge already
dr. Mortimer system limited up proximate
angles of authority the other choice in
Subway's CRT CRT numbers integers of
course Oh
yattaman Sancho personal theater and
level change
reporting from ocarina de marmol well
your Tong Tong Tong how much later on
Sarang Reba no portable Machado or
arrays or something - something's in the
towers ominously gelatin security
controls of the authority you know what
constellation you were
photogenic apart appropriate an OCD
traverses greasy party's nominee coccyx
adenocarcinoma barra de navidad massimo
Sinagra belgium Geneva todd WS Estrada
Oh Laura Steve apparently the Sun City
bombing disappearances of casitas our
social gentlemen Ramachandra touch the
negative of our analysis of Romano large
human social mores later
30,000 only disentitle Miriam placate
mother suggested by the social that they
don't know the energy later new material
properly comes out here dancing
these day Jason's on some demerits and
Nexus verse number 16
even if someone you have cared for as
dearly as your own child regards you as
an enemy love that person even more as a
mother would her ailing child this is
the way of a bodhisattva so this is also
a very important verse and this is what
happens a lot in this world so it
happens very much that we treat someone
with great love love them very much and
then in return in response they mistreat
us and it happens it arises really from
it begins with a very strong attachment
that we have for that person so that is
the effort especially refers to
very close companions who love each
other very much they have to be very
careful actually if your love is some
too strong then actually can almost be a
hundred percent sure that we leave you
one day because the attachment that is
too strong leads to jealousy and it
leads to disharmony in the future so
that kind of love that is so strong huh
not to make the same make the same level
of love then becomes hatred so the
hatred and is as strong as that love was
so it's very powerful for example like
like a nuclear bomb like and a nuclear
substances can be used for good things
they're very powerful like for medicinal
things but also they can be very very
destructive so if you have to be very
careful especially when it comes to
these intense feelings of love so how
you should think that is that this love
should become a cause of bodhichitta we
love our children and their husbands and
wives in in these ways for example if
you love your child you want the best
for them in the future
but whether or not that really will
happen also depends on Karma and nobody
can know that and we have not much
control over it some children just turn
out good because it's their common some
do not
whatever happens you to think that I
just keep my love my love is what I will
hold on to regardless of what happens so
even if they treat me badly I will hold
on to love and if they treat me badly
the reason they do that is because of
afflictive emotions and the nature of
afflictive emotions is like poison it is
that that the virtues accumulated in
Aeons is destroyed by a single moment of
anger hatred so this root of virtue here
that is merit and some people in very
home
and say I don't need any merit but
actually we do need merit because
without merit we cannot accomplish the
benefit of sentient beings we need
merits to benefit beings
for example His Holiness the Dalai Lama
can do these vast things for beings
because of merit it's all due to the
power of merit so what happens is that
when these circumstances occur that we
lose our we lose our love so when you
lose your patience you lose your love so
when that happens to you when that
happens to somebody else and then you
should think that this is just like a
sick child he can't help it he's trust
controlled by afflictive emotions this
is due to past karma and due to being
controlled by afflictive emotions so in
brief no matter what I must not lose my
laughs I must hold on to love and also
personally this it these circumstances
have happened to me also many times so
at that time we have to remember , and
that this is just a fault of an
afflictive emotion so you shouldn't
begin to think that it's the fault of
that person is because of what he did
and so on dama de Chivo general reported
easily she the patient imbalance
currently mucosal layer general which I
will consider in Chopra knowledge the
chopper Watson drug production source of
tea somebody's Jatin
Jana my own general pretty lesson he
taught that there are toxins don't is
some tits are totally not partially or
simply conjugated
and also some part of it and is awarded
and so for example what happens often is
that if you're um if you're an older
parent an old parents have a lot of
children they're rich and then their
children start fighting over their money
and over their houses and so on so if
you're one of these old parents then
don't get angry at the children this is
also this is also happening due to past
Karma these are all the karmic creditors
who come to collect economics debt so
actually our spouses and children are
all those karmic creditors who come to
our family
to take our karmic debt so when that
happens I think that now it is paid off
a paid of the karmic debt and then just
seal it with love and compassion and
just think that this is what happens to
to pass karma and temporary conditions
but in brief I'm turning into
bodhichitta and pray that through this
experience may all of the karmic that
similar comic debt of sentient beings
become cleared away my given result in a
young romantic retaliatory Marceline's
the resolution from me but Egyptian the
katana chronic disease
occasionally Lord instead kilometers are
about corals
Marco passions or someone or terra-cotta
portable on-ear neocortical traditional
division without a door Raja's
thermo-boy something understand the
quatrain
recording of the other key the world to
our question our children or a rather
chattel mrs. imagine the teachers our
some of our poets for the needs in
improper balance and then verse number
even if someone of equal or lower status
driven by pride tritium with disdain
respectfully placed them on your crown
as your teacher this is the way of a
bodhisattva
so when i actually was given his
teaching before in the past one time a
disciple asks a question about that and
said that if there is this person who is
doing that to me and does it mean that i
have to visualize that person on a crown
of my head so that's not really exactly
what you have to do but how you have to
think about it is that now normally
especially if it's someone who is of
equal or lower status than yourself when
they when they treat him with this pain
or northern humiliate him then that's
these kind of words are particularly
that they pierce your that they really
really upsets him because you feel that
he's not even I'm higher his lower of
equal status and he's saying these
things to me so it just makes you really
upset and you've got angry so you have
to recognize that anger when it arises
also and people say certain things
because they they like
and also what often happens is that they
actually don't really mean to disdain
your look down on you but you would
think that they did so often we know we
think we feel that we deserve some
respect for example it happens between
companions and llamas and then you feel
that you know receiving that so when
actually there are nobody intended to
humiliate you feel humiliated and so on
or you feel that between friends I
always do everything to care for him and
he you don't really care for me so we
feel in these ways but if it's an a
companion caused its relation to to
increase your love and and how we do
that we mentioned yesterday
think about that friends qualities again
and again and remember that the more we
are respected and and cared for also
leads to the increase of pride then if
we look at them therefore the first and
qualities of others then that increases
our love for them so in brief how we
should think in the circumstances when
anyone treats you with disdain or
humiliates you don't get angry at them
homes you taught me something Nathan dr.
Mercer's
knowledge it is about me but just like
the high incarceration comedy no no no
sir it'll never tolerate repay shelters
and America material some noble sodomy
demolition rhegium commercial Tanabe
Jason's crew number two recitals
astronomers targeting apartment in a
birthday or star their lost occasion
tamanna will know what answers there was
a missionary married that not be to
tolerate the total nothing but Conde de
colina young man authorities hungry 8 mm
the other corner the other
twenty-something Kurdish sorry that
Philippine certainly two days of
watching master printed strands artists
on number starts with our countries
share intelligence but is dangerous
the Minotaur is the middle SAT masala
the summit of a lady
sodium Bieber tour - Raju on those
double of beat Java the attempt to
create a shadow with the octopus or
charter to meet a dozen assorted mission
is it a low quality Dorothy this laser
is not a normal digital measurement
procedure or release occurs when is also
no strategist at average the mean
terrorists enter tolerate some mortality
Dickinson's of charges robbery
they Rock
turn Max's first number 18 though you
may be impoverished always dis perished
gripped by disease and tormented by
spirits never lose courage but take on
the misdeeds and pains of all beings
this is the way of a bodhisattva so
again this verse is also very important
and so what often happens nowadays is
that no people enter Buddhism with some
kind of wrong expectations thinking that
when a big if I become a Buddhist all my
suffering will be cleared away in this
life and also I will get rich because I
practiced some Balaam and then they then
they enter Buddhism and and then they
encounter difficulties and then they
blame or Buddhism did it to me or if
they get sick then somebody tells you
you are sick because you practice
Buddhism so then many people end up
really thinking that oh that must be
something really evil Buddhist must be
something really evil
so it's harming me it's causing a lot of
harm
so people might think that way but this
really of course completely wrong and we
have to make use of those words that we
mentioned these quotes for example if
you want to know what you did in the
past look at your present body so
whatever you experience now in this life
happiness or suffering is already the
flower ripened from a certain seat so
don't get too caught up in it if it's
happiness then just recognize this is
the kindness of love do to the Buddha
and the Dharma I have engaged in
activities with a mind of love or for
example I have
the precious human body because I have
kept my ethical discipline that's also
the kindness of love if I'm sick
this is also my own Karma it comes from
actions committed with jealousy and
hatred and so forth
so this is the result of any kind of
karma that comes from an afflictive
emotion and through experiencing the
difficulty this karma comes to an end
and this is how you learn to tolerate
the difficulty you encounter it actually
becomes like a support like a friend
because you have to purify karma one way
or the other even the Buddha can not
take away our karma he can't eliminate
it for us also one time my disciple
asked a question about one line in the
vertical ayah practice where it says may
they all experience suffering and so he
said I don't like that but also this is
we have to understand what that means
right so there are certain individuals
whose afflictive emotions was hatred
very strong for example there's like
terrorists also in the world we can see
what kind of things they do that caused
so much harm and then on contrast there
is some people in America for example
who feel compassion even for a little
animal or for beings in the oceans and
so on
even with just one of them and then on
the other hand those terrorists for
example go around and murder the lives
of precious human beings by like a
suicide attacks and throwing bombs and
so forth and that is due to a wrong view
a corrupt view and they have accumulated
humilated such Karma so this Khammam
will have to become purified dimensional
and the way to purify these comments for
experiencing suffering so they have to
experience suffering in order to purify
that karma so therefore we have set the
three lower realms for example they are
just like like a surgical hospital where
you just experience suffering and the
suffering is like medicine or is like a
physician so think in this way and you
shouldn't lose your inner strength or
give up in any way monetary
my toda raba Tranio Godot automatic
karate champ Attila what Roberto basis
inoperable no particular significance
some button tomorrow watch across
leadership
magic original sin military bases
control the early just somebody who was
allegedly did a very nice important
tsunami change religion do you just body
treat the person is something
Misaka Mikoto status until completely
unrelated
supercharger and automation remember
charity huh all those tiny GTO
so this alumina copernicium
general ocularist seppuku citizen pace
or origin the latest image street from
us Latino Majid Majidi
started eight doors
it'll be over here docile now is just
all nasty something you think is
something about your grammar some with
my - demon - very much to be learned a
very subjective dream is Jordan um
Barbara you're doing it wrong Boris just
going back here briefly about that verse
I'm driven by pride when the Treaty of
is disdain so test us one example about
that relating to house a question that I
disciple asked and so now there are no
in Buddhism as Buddhist practitioners we
say that we have to treat everyone with
respect and and kindness and then while
we do that then there are some people
who are not police practitioners and
then they even though we are trying to
be nice and kind they humiliate us and
they say only
unstable people or people who suffer
become Buddhists and think like that
things like that when we actually want
to go and help them and cultivate love
and compassion for them but then we are
humiliated in that way so this also
relates to this verse here so what's
important here is again to remember
karma so why do they feel such a sense
of from Pride those non-buddhists Nam
who humiliate it's because first of all
they don't really understand past and
future lives they don't understand karma
and they don't therefore understand that
all the happiness that they experience
is due to Karma so they think that this
is all my own the result of my own
abilities because I worked hard and so
on I don't I don't need a religion so
they don't recognize that this happiness
comes from the cause of love and
compassion and this really comes from
the three jewels ultimately because the
three jewels have realized their
workings of karma and so
they have said that there is not the
slightest marriage to be gained without
love and compassion there's nothing good
to be gained without love and compassion
no matter what you do in a world or in a
Dharma the only cause of happiness is
love and the happiness that these proud
people now experience is also due to
love that they have accumulated in a
previous life and as a result of that
now in this life they are wealthy or
they are never sick or they're always
happy in their minds but they don't know
that and therefore you should feel
compassion for that they don't think in
these ways and that's why they humiliate
like a Buddhist practitioner who is
trying to be kind and nice so the way to
confront them is peacefully and relaxed
and with kindness and remembering Karma
knowing that they just don't know karma
that's why they are so prideful and
because they don't know that eventually
that Karma will also become exhausted so
whatever they have found now in this
human existence or is married it will
become exhausted eventually and going
forward they don't think about the
qualities of love they don't think about
cultivating patience and so forth so
then all of that merits will become
exhausted just like hit the oil in a
bottle lamp and then they won't have it
in the future and therefore they are
worthy of our compassion
[Music]
Oh
so I'm just going to use a big voice
nice I made a little announcement this
morning after launch oppa this is just
your reminder about lights and
electricity you can hear our generator
going right now we're kind of struggling
this time and we really humbly
supplicate you to help us meet our
energy needs to be mindful of Lights and
be mindful of water using a lot of
electricity quick announcement His
Holiness chilled and everybody will be
going to Los Angeles intelligent showing
February 1st and 2nd to render a grand
bargain in common this is one of the
main practice for Martha and also one of
the main practice for His Holiness he
composes a ton of others so please check
out our website and register for that
and His Holiness would also keep us warm
and that's a diamond compose and also
originally we will be doing another
Yamanaka in April if you have questions
and want to register please talk to me
doing great thank you well this holiness
is an advisory we are working on it
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
my
Nemus
[Music]
Oh
mechanical incision so mom Eva Giselle
on a Sunday in court any thomas joseph
MO toma de Saavedra so or domain name ba
da da da yo ready
slit Roka shibasaki no more limited our
Papa labas fortunately a DNA test on
Trina Bernardino pathologist archeology
chat email or 3rd Ranger la marche de
Austin Omar easily say 13 religious
knowledge latest occasional same story
same great Himalayan Balsam
wrongly pavani rajesh khattar chromatic
manual the sense of meaning was restored
in Porto subordinate silver in the
geology Oh Charlie Charlie Johnson
Anthony JR multi-syllable family dinner
today
Tata Docomo social dimensions a tourist
ramadani
sampling Jimmy Cindy so ocarina
some rotten fish are delicious on some
tour tomorrow burning parmesan standing
for Tasha songs dictum
tanzamarie someone in symbology
principality lord of our history
shadow of the Sierra Madre fashionable
fashion jewelry horizontal technology
guardian eatos reporter in court
dodge or San saludos Santa Santa Santa
Amana salted andre-louis Marez
sotvo votre santé c'est la Penna Marty
process from Tina Rajeswari Pendolino
patrolling the border the masses Oshima
Gerardo monitor such diversity
Sam Sam Sam it's emotionally safe non-
subjective sensation there are never
just wanna support or some honey some
teas around Paris until maturity table
where there is abuse under same ism
filters about the medieval Muslim Tatum
shattered Berlin amar amar da de tributo
sushupti congenital teacher Subterra 3d
market remark or Georgia his own
supersuit insulted
tourism citizens this led Rocco
Sabrina Kawasaki Versys of the you know
to Kotzebue Matilda Batta Batta
pathology limited service auntie
somewhat similar gone to the center
chocolate is a polymer sample another
data report from mozilla reconnaissance
you know what is no magic meter party
permittivity generous brother she with
Total Drama sir trust and Utley touches
to mrs. kunen conformity by
cha-cha-cha-da-cha
Abyssinian colonies have some symmetry
vichara company some obscenity Kira
determining under arrest
terminology the story isn't a part of
Mozart in the palace itself arm possibly
Mallory certainly memory tellus
important passages in eternity to
Eternity result something father
she's hoping the judges to deliberate
rotation or mystique or somewhere waters
only body to generate such as Williams
also really
Tata Tata Tata Tata Tata Tata Tata Tata
Tata Tata Tata knock on door Madame
northern Rondo sama lottery or portaging
theatres are legitimate e yo report
cha-cha chichi Yatta Yatta change the
series numbers for Aristotle Muhammad
Rory
this'll someone needs changes and her
donor services in Italy so whole
community the military service updated
doctor Malaysia had the images of Hotel
de comer under and another raw edge
so then next worse actually sit in the
same worse so to take on the misdeeds
and pains of all beings in verse number
18 and so this refers to the practice of
tomlin taking on the suffering of others
giving away your happiness and actually
bumblin is a practice that many
disciples really think about a lot and
now when it comes to taking the
suffering taking on the misdeeds in the
suffering of others there's two
different ways actually of taking one is
a more is the direct way of actually
doing something in a physical way and
one is to take on their suffering the
root of their suffering from within the
mind in many religions for example there
is an actual engagement in clearing away
the suffering of others for example
helping schools and other works of
charity and so on
and actual help to others and now in
Buddhism we have those two ways of
course if you have the condition to help
then the resources then we do that but
even if you don't there's no need to
think that I have no way at all to help
others or take on their suffering so
even if you don't have the outer
resources to help someone really when we
think about who created that suffering
where does it really come from it does
not come from any external force it
comes from within the mind so it comes
from the Karma created in previous lives
and since that is created even the
Buddha cannot take it away from us once
it's ripened we have
no choice over it so suffering arises so
it is this suffering that comes to our
mind then when we take on their
suffering and now once first we need to
understand that once the root of
suffering has been created the results
can often not be avoided now when we
think about here when we take on the
suffering of others here we first have
to think about the suffering that people
experience experience in this world
human beings and animals and any kind of
being when you think about their
suffering how kind of feeling arises for
example when somebody has passed away if
somebody has passed away let's say today
the feeling that arises for example if
it your friend has passed away or your
parent has passed away actually in that
moment you think that today this has
happened and it's just today that it
happened but actually it happens all the
time continuously day and night
uninterrupted limb I get running wheel
being sometime or just like like
snowflakes falling down it's like
endlessly beings time so for example
just like being active in a field is
plowed and so on I'm constantly being
some dying day and night and day and
night beings experience unbearable
suffering continuously and the root of
all that lies in self-grasping almost
comes down to self grasping and the
antidote to self-grasping is love so now
when it comes to love expressing our
love for giving our love to others
notice is giving when we take on take on
the mysteries and then we gift and love
so you might wonder so then can I just
tell everyone I love you and so this is
not what it's meant it has to come from
within the heart you have to really feel
that the kind of love for example them
love that a mother has for her child
because the mother loves
child for example the milk will
naturally flow or even in an animal like
a cow for example how doesn't know how
to produce milk but it just flows
naturally it doesn't think about making
it but it flows naturally out of love
for a child so this is how love is
pervades or is given in an on an outer
inner and secret level so the outer
level is the more material material
thing and then the inner level is giving
love like feeling love for others and
then on the secret level and this love
that you have for someone in this life
is always sustained even if one dies in
this life in future lives in the para
dome this love office remains wherever
one goes and it becomes immeasurable
love and it is the immeasurable love
that becomes all pervasive and it is
this immeasurable love that melts the
eyes of self-grasping just like the
morning sun is melting the morning frost
so the greater your compassion or your
love the greater also will be your
wisdom your ability to pervade so there
is this prayer we say meme I free those
who are unfree may our aim deliver those
who are not delivered and may I give
breath to those without breath and we
are established all sentient beings in
nirvana so there's four lines and it
refers to the gradual liberation of
sentient beings so for example freeing
those who are not freed means to to free
the beings living in the three lower
realms so they are a ticket so they are
born in the three higher realms and then
next those who are born in the higher
realms then they are introduced to karma
they enter the path of individual
liberation and then those who have
already entered that path they are
established in the path of the
Bodhisattvas and so forth and so in this
way gradually
beings are established in nirvana in
enlightenment and so now in this world
even though not there are many Buddhist
practitioners if we do not cultivate
this Mahayana mind then liberation will
still be far away and so the Mayan
Mahayana mind has to arise together with
the skillful means of the secret mantra
and now when that arises then this love
becomes all pervasive and it has to
pervade when it comes to this the
practice of Donlan now for example if
you there's a friend that you love very
much and then his friend is going
somewhere else traveling or for example
the friend is at a different country and
then in this country a fire breaks out
and immediately of course you wonder is
there anyone I know in that place we
immediately think of is to anyone that I
know also I myself often think that if
something happens somewhere then I
wonder do I have any disciples there and
there must be one of my disciples and so
and this is now still limited but this
is the kind of feeling that should be
there for all sentient beings when they
experience suffering because all
sentient beings have been ones parents
and when you hear about their suffering
then a very special feeling then arises
as if a feeling is generated so the
suffering comes to you so you also
actually feel unhappy about it
and that's the sign of pervasive love so
because if love is not pervasive then
you wouldn't have a special feeling
but because first of all you have sent
love there and then you hear what
happened then immediately makes you feel
unhappy so temporarily it seems then
that your own suffering also increases
because of that but also it becomes an
encouragement to practice virtue and
then suffering again diminishes so first
it has to be
otherwise actually without you loving
them their suffering would not even come
to you only if you send out laughed and
their suffering can come to you and so
this is actually the principle of the
practice of tomlin it is just like you
become an ocean that gets a little bit
warm and then the ice blocks begin to
melt so think of it in this way
in the practice of tomlin and so for
example in the practice of the
Bodhisattvas even even if you for
example don't even have a dollar to give
as an offering or so on PSP for being
generous what is important is that you
have love and care in your heart that's
really very precious so think about that
and think about each of the sufferings
of beings in this world actually for
that it seems that the bodhicaryavatara
is very beneficial because maybe to
speak in a more general sense may all
beings have happiness and the causes of
happiness then often we don't really
feel anything special but when we reach
the body terraeum Mataura the radiation
prayers the shantideva dedication and
each line actually really is very
meaning form it really generates a
feeling for example this line about me
those who like traveling and bolder
shape whichever way or airplanes
nowadays reach their Shore and meet
their kith and kin I'm happy and well
and so on so nowadays people travel on
airplanes for example and they travel
far away and if we love them then we
want that they arrive well in that
destination and then once they arrive we
want them to be successful in whatever
they do if you want them to be happy and
well and so that's basically how the
bodhicaryavatara dedication prayer is
structured each of these verses really
is an example of how we can cultivate
love and increase our love and that is
why we reached his prayer
and again so first of all we have to
understand the suffering of sentient
beings
for example now if somebody travels on
an airplane and then the airplane
crashes and how much suffering is that
and how much suffering for the family
members or this person also may have
taken a lot of important precious things
and all of that is lost and the person
is lost and how much to the family
members suffer so we think in this way
I'm over and over again
normally we want everyone to be happy
and so and then we just expanded and
think may everyone be happy and arrive
well and so forth so this is how I
personally feel a real feeling has to
arise when we practice tomlin and then
we really recognize the great power of
love
and then whether or not it has arisen
within yourself is something you can
just see by looking at your at your own
mind so in any case to generate that
feeling it's very helpful to read the
poor Acharya Vitara dedication prayer
again and again Jason is not a social
scientist I own a result rotational
self-denial so ah
[Music]
yeah yeah of the part of the Trinity so
I suppose in the science donor it
doesn't support our child my only little
the relative pronoun pylori the relative
poverty education soldiers possibly
lived in certain meeting structure or a
kingdom not the house on some of those
vegetables open source or a doors
[Music]
multi-domain solo they were the order to
me started it is important the tulip in
803 a voyage they serve but thatís only
Diaries only literally nobody move on
this energy so we thought they would not
touch it so this mind of taking on the
suffering of others and giving away your
happiness of Tomlin now some people have
already cultivated that in a previous
life and so there are some people who
have a natural feeling of compassion for
beings for example when they when they
see animals being killed for example in
like a butcher place or place where fish
are killed and so on
then that immediately generates an
unbearable feeling in them it's it's
it's horrifying for them a real feeling
arises and then there's others who have
no feeling at all let us see those
animals as food and they can just cut
them themselves even and don't feel
anything so that is the size a different
size of wisdom
and the difference in how pervasive the
mind is so one's love is so when one's
love is pervasive than the suffering of
others release felt it comes to you and
and that is a sign
actually that you have taken on their
suffering and once you are able to take
on a suffering then he can also give
away and happiness them so this is the
important point here about the practice
of tomlin and so what is a kind of a
proof that we can take on the suffering
also the Buddha himself had said in the
great liberation sutram he said that to
abide within state and like a session of
meditative concentration remaining
within meditation for just a while has
that benefit of liberating saving the
lives of all sentient beings in the
three realms of samsara and so that is
because you are remaining within it
welling in this union of the twofold
truths of emptiness and compassion which
pervades all sentient beings in the
three realms of samsara so these these
are the authentic true words of the
Buddha himself and it really happens we
can see when the suffering of others
comes to you then you have really it's
the proof that's the sign of having
taken their suffering and then many when
you realize that when you experience
that then you want to engage in practice
you know that you can benefit others and
also even if you yourself encounter
difficulties like yes sick for example
and normally we suffer from that we
think that I am so ill and it's so it's
so painful and often it we take it out
of proportion and it's not that bad but
we make it a really big problem and then
often the illness gets worse and worse
because of that so if you take on the
suffering of others on the other hand
then you would think that so many beings
in this world suffer like that then your
mind goes out to all of them so for one
then first of all you think that it's
not just me who suffers like that but
all sentient beings
like that and then secondly you
recognize I suffer like that because it
is my karma it is created by the
afflictive emotions and I'm purifying
this karma now and thirdly actually then
you would think that the suffering is
actually a good thing the illness is
like a friend that helps you it's
actually beneficial so this is how you
how Dhamma and is weight and benefits
you and you encounter difficulties
yourself and so also what is important
to understand about dolan is that the
taking and the receiving are not
actually two separate actions they
actually happen simultaneously there are
a union there one it happens at the same
time the moment you send out love the
suffering of others already comes to you
it happens naturally there's no separate
taking actually it happens at the same
time so if I really find that the
something day about the vacation prayer
and goes into each and every suffering
very clearly for example there's
something about the death for example
and that's something no I can relate to
because I don't I'm here very well and
then I think that in that moment when I
read that then I think that all of the
sentient beings as so many sentient
beings who suffer in that way so for
example when I have my hearing Aryan
then experienced at us happiness and
when I take it out experience that as
suffering because then I can't hear
anything so then when I reached for
Acharya with her prey arm then I think
that I'm not the only one all sentient
beings experience that and may all of
their suffering be alleviated may that
go away so then my mind goes out there I
think of them with love and then I've
already taken on their suffering which
means an actual feeling arises Shambhala
adjusted are not doing the situation
where is it there's almost no charm is
and so it says never lose courage and so
that means whatever is the difficulty
whatever suffering there is you don't
lose courage true quality doesn't need
simple marketing of supportive of
eligible indirect illogical austerity is
the transition 30,000 robust authorities
of the current some words Margaretville
decry assumptions the Berenson's
sentiment revoir humor Diwali
some songs are on Felicity
dr. module 7 liriko liriko glory around
in orange or the same with disinterest
in a port established ourselves the
younger treasonable mentioned somebody
who just enjoy the song la matanza
martinson's
teenagers of the mahogany virtual
reality
German aggression install thousands some
waka here to support in part at all
many Taylor what they intended only
chocolate tears of a child with impulses
what is the juries Jones is someone in
the shaft and Judaism well now the
magical Kanyakumari
in order to to
humble potato that's generous
generally Java tourists are both
functional duty Israel rejected to Korea
magic universe mother Luiza this is the
filardo a daughter were ridiculous the
next verse number 19 it says though you
may be famous and revered by my name and
are as rich as the wealth God himself
having seen that worldly fortune is
without essence do not be proud this is
the way of a bodhisattva so there is
some who experience even though the two
great things to experience fame and
their revered by my name very
influential for example there is
spiritual teachers whose enlightened
activities for sentient beings are
really vast and in a worldly sense a
very wealthy people and they also offer
a lot of help and give food to others
and so forth so when you're in this
position when you find yourself with a
lot of wealth then again we need to
understand karma if you understand karma
you know that this is because I have
practiced generosity to sentient beings
in a previous life and it is because
I've made offerings to the jewels in a
previous life and in this way and I will
continue to use this marriage to benefit
others for example some people they
start companies or a factory and through
that many people find the job many
people just naturally benefit and also
it depends on how we see things we think
that this is a great merit
I use this again to in order to
accumulate more merit with love and
compassion
so someone who doesn't understand karma
and they're rich they will think that
this is all because of my competence my
abilities my hardwork my education and
so on so they take pride in all of their
achievements or possessions but they
don't recognize that it is all the
result of merit accumulated in previous
lives which will become exhausted again
for example there are many successful
businessmen who are successful in the
early part of their life and later on
they lose everything and become poor as
many people who suffer a lot or happy in
the early part of their life and in the
end it turns into suffering so for that
not to happen we need to understand the
quality of the three jewels love and
compassion and wisdom we need to
recognize this merit and if we recognize
that then this prideful arrogance and
will not be able to take us over so even
even small of kinds of well-being in
this life we should recognize the
quality behind it for example if you
have a beautiful appearance and you get
along with everyone have a lot of
friends and so on all of that for
example is the result of having been
ethical or disciplined and having
practiced patience so even just on a
smaller scale we can recognize the
quality so if one really understands
that you know how to think about the
causes that have led to that you
recognize the merit and therefore you
will not develop pride within that if
you develop pride in your possessions
and and so forth your well-being then
all of that merit will become spoiled
because eventually it will come to an
end
so that's important to understand
[Music]
listen
you throw out the hospital sort data
each other that are somewhat on the
somebody rally Sharon D Raja Gandhi to
me ha now from the hosonaga different
storage or initiative the tathagata
service sir
they always say hogwash Adam John Harmon
dr. Curtis or Mother India
all those
somebody jealous Marisa were coming and
methodologies are not sherry tamati
mentioned with a biology major commodity
retirement me about an entirely
legitimate interest for this important
living Jewish military worried somebody
hid on thirteen rows in the Royal Jabari
data the regional capital or endogenous
Regina makeup artist in Italy they
altered somewhat assault Indian stock or
its functional trata de la botella de
the Commish some totally check out the
boosters and then next is verse number
20 it says if the enemy your own anger
is not tamed subduing outer enemies will
only make them increase therefore subdue
your own mind with the army of love and
compassion this is the way of a
bodhisattva
now nowadays in the world and that's
what we do man we face anger with anger
we we try to subdue
angry people with more anger but then
even though you might achieve some
temporary result by doing that actually
the difficulties will only increase and
ultimately also from lifetime to
lifetime you will find no
liberation from the three lower realms
so when we think about we need to think
here about how we are creating the
actual causes of suffering
we are developing the afflictive
emotions by fighting back and so on for
example if there is an argument between
two people and one person kills the
other to take care of it but then their
family and their parents and everyone
arises as an enemy as a result so things
will only get worse and then in general
an angry person will have fewer friends
and much more suffering so we need to
look at the nature of anger what is the
nature of anger what is that feeling how
how does it feel when you get angry a
person who has a lot of anger for
example in a family even their own
family members don't want to stay close
to them because it makes them feel
miserable that is the natural radiance
that comes over anger this feeling that
arises in their minds and then they
don't want to stay close to that person
and then that person thinks that they
don't like me even though I have cared
for them and he doesn't recognize that
it's all the fault of his own anger they
can't stay close to him because an angry
person is just like somebody with thorns
it's like naturally I'm makes people go
away so then no no matter you know how
many friends you or companions might
have how well things have been going
when you turn angry and resentful and so
on then nobody wants to stay close
because it generates an unpleasant
feeling in their mind so a person who
understands that and understands the
qualities of love will recognize this is
the fault of my own
anger so no man's other people don't
like to stay close to me for example if
you're one that is very angry people
don't like to stay close to you you
understand that then you would think
that this is probably because I must be
very it must be a very angry person or
must be very jealous person so such a
person will be able to look at
themselves inside and recognize the
fault of their own anger and then once
you recognize that and what's the next
thing to do then you have to cultivate
love and compassion and when that arises
when love and compassion arises people
naturally want to stay close to you even
animals for example your cat or your dog
you don't even have to put them on a
leash they will naturally follow you
wherever you go and this is the kind of
human beings also we have this leash of
the mind I connect like a bond that
connects us and that is love and that
keeps people close to you for example if
you have a companion a friend whom you
love very much and that friend lives
very far away and then a phone call
comes in and you hear their voice
immediately a very strong feeling of
love arises it even makes you cry and
why is that that's the quality of love
and compassion because you love that
person and they love you and then on the
ultimate level you feel that because the
basis of your mind is one and the same
the mind is like electricity or like
light for example now we can make a
phone call to a different country better
styling the number and immediately we
can hear somebody's voice it's like very
fast electricity and that's the same
quality of the mind it is like space so
a temporary the always temporary
feelings that arise in our mind are
these emotions and feelings of happiness
and so on and so on it's all a creation
of the mind is fabricated by the mind
and so naturally when this feeling of
aversion and anger arises just the mere
arising of it already is suffering by
nature as it arises already so in this
way
think about the faults of anger again
and again so first of all you recognize
the anger and then you you look at that
feeling of anger how does anger feel and
then you look at what it does
the destructive things it does all the
results the consequences of anger and so
on so in this way you know you see it
like poison and so forth so reflect in
this way
ronk are abraham's own sin Dollarama
than some children are too much sediment
or Abednego Kareena requisite hungry
child Rani the chickens are roboticus
only the mythology to methods to
historical gelatine easily generate some
tomorrow will just not same simple or
thousands not sitting in row Charlie
Charlie I determined did you know some
didn't of the mother doesn't know
something capacitance some teach support
touch the tumbler Monroe Georgia parties
which I miss Montgomery
summer to Colorado on money some teacher
orientation are you eating something I'm
worried she said Delta G sometimes seem
to target during the door
doesn't everybody all the worries basis
almost a bitter tear down 20 rounds were
terribly damaged something and there's a
mess one quote about hatred or anger and
what it does and it says it is your own
it leads to your own ruin it ruins
yourself and it it burns others so how
does it ruin yourself
so in this life so for example it
happens between friends and family
members of parents and spouses and so on
whoever we are connected to anger I'm
Severus this bond of love and it happens
because when we get angry at loved ones
then we all we can think about is their
faults we can only see their faults and
then it even happens in very subtle
I'm actually with Miss regard to the
five sense pleasures first when it is in
its course form then it manifests as
anger in its subtle form it is fear or
does the criticism if it this is not
good and that is not good and so on
insistent negativity in the mind and
then all your activities become tainted
by that everything is unpleasant I think
nothing is right and in this way you
keep accumulating anger so a wise person
how they would see it is they have said
in the past that don't look at your own
good qualities it will only increase
your pride and they said do not look at
the faults of others because if you see
the faults in others over and over again
you will begin to hate them so
resentment arises so there is three
states of mind that are that we should
not allow to remain in our mind and that
is no covetousness harmful thoughts and
wrong view
covetousness is desire on its course in
its course form the subtle form of
desire is hope now thinking that I want
to accomplish this or that and then
covetousness or desire often leads to
harmful thought just like love leads to
hatred or anger for example if you have
children and they don't study well you
love your children but it also makes you
angry because they don't study well so
the love becomes anger and then even
though you might mean well and it might
come from a plate from a place of love
if you speak to them in an angry way
they don't want to listen to you so
that's generally the case if we speak
from a place of anger and nobody wants
to listen even if it's true and meant
well and so then often people wonder
even though I loved
care for them while why do they turn out
like that it's also because of their
karma there's often nothing that we can
do about it but sustaining love so what
hatred or anger does is it turns
everything into a fault of course it
turns some faults in the faults but even
qualities are turned into faults so this
is how it ruins yourself it ruins your
happiness in this life and in future
lives and it burns others and because it
will make everyone be unhappy for
example if you're always angry and they
are loving and kind people but if you
always angry it will make the masa feel
unhappy and then they will distance
themselves from you and a person who is
always angry will have just lesser and
lesser fewer and fewer friends so when
that happens recognize that the fault in
that is the anger and a lack of love
[Music]
today's America Bella Terra Nova
liquorice that is awesome
she'd unless I guess at the customers
table
what is your Endora
the site on the dillinger journalist she
bugged Intifada was Taggarts nor justice
to the honorees dr. Tyrell angrily shell
of the car though she don't suffer
though did she tell me your tongs or a
tragedy no long nights no it's
absolutely
oh she's under large easy o chillen
generalities don't wanna do with a
charcoal so much on consumption that she
talked the infirmary it's only young
they understand much about you
cha-cha-cha waddle in cutter gossip
register oh yeah totally
conversation mm is she like some toner
or ii ii ii ii saw with Colorado already
this is honey some hot water people mm
it seems our channel or immediately
delicious onto the young Tunisian star
breeze so V and reflect on the faults of
hatred by looking as ourselves and also
looking in the world for example there
are some countries in the world where
people fight their entire lives and is
that happiness a suffering there is
suffering and imagine if you take birth
in such a place in such a country the
suffering that you experience is really
unbearable for example when we hear that
in a country of fire
natural fires broken out and then we
feel like like an aversion against them
you feel this is a terrible suffering
but then worse is something that people
actually create intentionally for
example normally when you have a house
for example and something happens it
gets damaged or so and immediately you
want to fix that but then how many
houses are just shattered each and every
day in those places so thinking in this
way recognize the Fault in Ingham and
then any action any Karma of anger bears
different frictions there is the result
that corresponds to the cause there is
the result of full maturation and so on
so once you have created the Karma anger
in the future even if you take birth as
a human being again then the result
corresponding to the cause comes into an
effect and you take birth in one of
those negative places where you
experience a lot of suffering and then
there is the activity corresponding to
the cause so again you will engage in
similar activities of harming others and
then there is the experience
corresponding to the cause again they
will hurt you in return and nobody you
think about that all of that is created
by anger and then apply it to yourself
so all of this is created by anger so
where is that anger actually I also have
it it's in my own mind and if you die
with anger in the mind then naturally
hang anger will protect the hell Ram
right now we can see hell although hell
is really present in this world's tomb
but the very nature of anger is actually
held so therefore a person who gets
angry immediately their face changes if
the whole expression changes for example
a very beautiful girl when she gets very
angry nobody wants to look at her
immediately changes so think about the
fault of that over and over again and
will
nice girl is wrong then man you
habituate that and one day an anger
Rises you will recognize it right away
and remember these words my true enemy
is my own hatred that is the real like
criminal or terrorist and so on now for
example when we when we subdue you and a
terrorist in the world and everyone is
happy about that but just like that you
recognize your own anger as this
disbanded is criminal and see it's fault
so when it arises in its smallest forms
every small formation of anger and
recognize it and eventually the moment
you know there it is there's anger it
already is gone and at that point
anger is recognized as the mirror like
wisdom then you recognize when
recognition is instant he recognized
that the anger actually makes the mind
be very clear and in that sense it has
good quality actually of course until
then you have to think about the faults
of anger again and again and make sure
that you eliminate at the very moment
and recognize it the very moment it
arises somebody another thought Nisha
palma de Torquemada salsa territory very
methodically there are no opportunities
premature memory dr. Sebastian Khan come
John just a dinner
Sonia Garcia Domino 38 Roberta's
incidentally the only prints are a
permanent or something some data support
semi bhakti-yoga knowledge about semi
cultural teach other body language new
Mosasaurus didn't really talk about
marriage and so how we really begin with
cultivating love loving kindness is with
those individuals who are close to us
you know life's our companions our
parents our teachers our friends and so
on all of them which are close to us
these are the ones that we begin with in
cultivating love otherwise we if we just
say oh may all sentient beings have
happiness and the causes of happiness
and then we go home to our families and
you're angry at them and we speak to
them in an unkind way and we saw
dramatic face then all of these words
are really useless so it begins with
those who are you spend your lives
together with that's how you cultivate
love first and also you can do that by
remembering the impermanence of this
life you don't know how much time you
have with them and what however much
time you have you want to spend that
time loving and in happiness because it
could happen just the next day tomorrow
and somebody dies and then at least you
would think that I have kept my samaya
pure I didn't spend our lives I'm
fighting but I
stay in love and this is the Sam iron
that we sustained it is that continuum
of love and that will leads to the
happiness in the higher realms and
ultimate the attainment of enlightenment
we will always actually meet together
until then if we sustain this continuum
of love so if you understand that you
would think that that is what I have to
do I have to sustain love it has to
become immeasurable love so this is how
it has to this is how the mind has to
become that's very important and for
that to happen you must not think about
the faults of others only think about
their good qualities when you see a
fault and then recognize that this is
just because of an afflictive emotion
and then immediately apply it to
yourself I also have that afflictive
emotion and so if you're able to
separate the person from the afflictive
emotion you will also not get angry at
the person
yeah